oh what
i'm like anthony just make sure you tell
me when you press the button so when it
starts i'm not just standing here
looking looking like an idiot
but uh
clearly totally unintentional so this
is something that i am actually pretty
excited to open up now here's the funny
thing when intel launched their i don't
even i don't even know what exactly
they're calling this platform like
because it's not their workstation
platform that's on lga 2066 and it's
certainly not a server platform because
that is on lga 3647 but it uses
different chipsets it uses different
chips you can do dual socket and all
that stuff this is the weird in between
when intel launched what's inside this
box they actually completely left us out
of the party they were i didn't even
know
that they had brought it to market yet
until i saw videos and articles from
other people and i was like hey
so you guys launched the overclockable
28 core processor huh and they're like
yep
and i was like oh
well
we would have loved to do a review of
that
and they were like
oh really
it didn't really seem like your style
and i was like what
what are you doing
no
no actually i kept myself very calm and
collected
and uh you know it was all very
dignified everything uh anyway anyway
the point is
we are writing this wrong
and we have gotten our hands on the new
xeon w what is it 3175 anthony is that
3175 x excuse me i meant i meant 3175x
but
the thing about this product is that
intel apparently doesn't trust people
to like
use it properly so they have gone as far
as to not just send over the cpu
but even send over a completely
built system with the cpu integrated
into it
for our use so we are gonna go ahead
and we are gonna open this up and we are
gonna have my first
hands-on experience with the 3175
x
uh oh after i tell you guys about our
sponsor for the day mass drop master
not a drop not a drop just a fling what
okay
you would have thought i staged that but
um
actually this is here so we can make
sure we have the right motherboard in
our system later
getting my getting my composure here
excuse me
i'm good mass drop mouse drop is
featuring the high finance he 4xx
headphones so these are planar magnetic
headphones and hi-fi n basically
requires no introduction they have a
fantastic reputation for building high
quality headphones that sound absolutely
fantastic at a fair price they've got
this nice comfortable velour on the
inside of the ear cups here we're not
going to get a chance to get b-roll
david so do you have that
very nice
and we've got nice soft padding on the
wide headband for nice even weight
distribution these are an open backed
headphones so you can expect really nice
spatial awareness in case you know
someone's calling you or whatever else
and beautiful stereo imaging so you guys
can check these out at the link to mass
drop in the video description
okay
now
let's move on so this is one of those
situations where i kind of wish that we
had prepared for the stream at all
rather than just pulling this off the
pallet and then getting started because
if i'd known that this was like a box
within a box on top of a box situation i
might have removed one of the boxes so
we don't have to wait so long but
intel clearly wasn't
taking any chances
that this would get damaged in shipping
so they have gone ahead and they have
double packed it on top of shipping it
inside a crate rather than via
traditional courier
this is a fun one
uh i'm really not sure what the
rationale was here but even on the
inside box okay
you make sure you handle that with care
okay
yeah
i guess yeah is that just a message to
me directly very subtle very subtle you
guys
all right
okay
so we've got some
accessories here this looks like the
cables from an evga power supply
including one of those
ever so beefy
dang it i forget with c19 i want to say
i want to say c19 connectors
can't remember doesn't matter uh some
modular power cables for the inside of
the system
uh okay an included copy of windows
uh rgb rgb control for the system they
got their priorities straight
let's go ahead and tip this down again
what's that
fragile right
well the box the box isn't fragile
the box is fine
all the packing materials
here we go
this thing is so
friggin
heavy
and the crazy part is that
i don't get this
they shipped an entire
dual either 120 or dual 140 millimeter
liquid cooling system
separately so am i expected to install
the cooler myself
uh i mean like that's fine i'm fully
capable of installing a water cooler i
just mean if you were going to go to the
trouble of pre-building the system
for reviewers
i would say that
installing like a
a custom grade
cpu water cooler like this
is probably about as difficult as it
gets
so
maybe ow
the air's really dry here right now just
got zapped okay
oh boy
i could have read all the notes that
intel sent over on this but i figured
anthony's right there he's read the
notes he can tell me if i miss anything
super important
sorry everyone
rip rip all the users of the
he 4xx
and really anything else with nice
accurate sound reproduction because that
noise was truly spectacularly awful
all right
so this is actually going to be my first
look
at gigabytes board
for intel's i guess we would call why
don't we call what do we want to call it
high-end workstation
because like
the thing is you've got your uh
you've got your consumer which is on lga
1150 whatever we're on now 55 right now
can't remember it was 56 then 50 51 50 i
don't know it's one of those so you've
got your 11 5x consumer platform you've
got your 20xx
uh you know atdt high-end desktop
platform then you've got entry-level
workstations on lga 2066 then we've got
yeah hughes high-end workstation
on
31.67 so that
is probably why
where should i put this tempered glass i
don't want this to break
i'm gonna put it inside this box
that seems safe
so this
is probably why intel included a new
cooler for me uh do you guys do you guys
want me to install it on stream i mean i
guess if we're like
if we're if we're streaming the
experience here we might as well do it
because this
is a very
cludged
together looking solution right here
so
what
makes this platform stand out from the
other ones in intel's lineup well there
are a couple of things first and
foremost it uses an entirely different
socket so as i alluded to before this is
lga 3647.
so that is like what 50 more pins than
2066 more than 50 more pins now what are
they doing with all those pins i'm glad
you asked so a couple of things number
one is they need more power because lga
3647 at this time goes up to 28
processing cores as opposed to 18
processing cores in the high in the low
end workstation high-end desktop socket
lga 2066 the other thing that these
extra pins do is handle the additional
memory channels that are available to
this cpu so when you have all those
cores you need a ton of memory bandwidth
in order to keep them all fed so you can
see here we've got six memory sticks
installed but we've also got an
additional
six available ddr4 memory slots so this
is a six channel memory controller not
quite as many as amd has on epic but
you know hey who's keeping count anyway
all right what else do we have here oh
yeah this is fun so everything about
this motherboard is basically super
sized you know what i'm going to go
ahead i'm going to pull this graphics
card for now just so that we can get a
bit of a better look at it
um so the socket
is actually pretty much the takes up the
entire area under that copper plate
there
and i'll talk through this cooling
solution and why it's not really that
great once i've popped it off but the
socket is like i don't know 5 or 6x the
size of a consumer socket um the board
itself actually uh anthony can i ask a
favor of you
can you stop monitoring the stream for
like 30 seconds and grab me an atx board
just like um just like that blue pcb
intel one that's in the uh the little
like paper thing full of motherboards
you know the just the slidey thing yeah
just like one of those would be great um
is this gonna come out
i swear i have undone the screw okay
there it goes
all right
so the motherboard is super sized a
standard atx board would be about from
here to here
down to here and then would contain uh
one two three four five six seven
expansion slots now this one also has
seven two three four five six seven
seven expansion slots
except for one critical difference
there's actually a gap of three
expansion slots between where the i o
would normally end on a standard
motherboard an atx motherboard and where
the pci express expansion would begin
but all that space is getting taken up
because while here thank you
um check this out
atx motherboard for scale
this all the way over here this is still
motherboard folks
it is like double the size
so here's another thing that's taking up
mondo space on a standard motherboard
this area up here kind of in between the
cpu socket and the top and then in
between the cpu socket and the i o of
the board is typically reserved for your
vrm so that's where you take your 12
volt dc that's coming out of your power
supply and you turn it into nice clean
stable power at the voltage that your
particular cpu requires well that space
wasn't enough and instead this entire
segment of the board all the way along
the top with this gigantic heat pipe
cooler and four cooling fans on it is
the vrm that my friends is exactly how
much power intel expects could be
consumed by this cpu now
the thing is that this socket exists in
the server space where motherboards
really do just have about this much pcb
space dedicated for vrm so what what's
the deal here
it's because of the overclocking so
those boards are intended to run cpus
that are just running within spec
there's going to be world record
sub-zero overclockers fooling around
with these things so they needed to make
sure that they were beefy enough to
handle multiple times over potentially
the power draw of what you'd get even
with a 28 core xeon running on a
standard server
uh what else is what else is exceptional
about this thing i'm actually gonna
start i'm gonna start pulling it out so
uh
oh man where do we even
where do we even start with this they've
gone in kind of
cable managed everything okay why don't
we find out what else we're dealing with
here so we've got a 1080 ti oh we're
going to need to replace that we're
going to need uh
something 2080 ti class by the time we
fire this up right anthony
um
uh yeah probably but not just yet i've
got one in my office that we can
actually borrow from my bench i was
working on the oof 8k red footage video
today you know what i know why this
sorry everyone i know why this is so
heavy i'm gonna go ahead and pull the
tempered glass panel off the back here
so between these two tempered glass
panels this thing just weighs
way
too much
it's way too much
get it
way too much mass
you're fired
you can't fire me
you can't fire me because i already
fired me that joke was terrible
all right
here we go let's go ahead and pop this
over here yeah that's really really
heavy
um david do you promise not to trip over
this if i put it here
okay all right all right all right i'm
gonna put it up here then
it's probably fine
probably fine okay
so let's go ahead and look at uh what
all they installed in this thing oh
there's some there's some
sorry there's some pretty fun hardware
in there so they threw in one of the u.2
versions of their 905 p series optane
ssds so that looks like it's going to be
our boot drive down there we've got evga
supernova 1600 t2 that's an 80 plus
titanium 1600 watt power supply of
course
all the fans and everything are hooked
up so this must be like one of their
demo systems because
even though
it's got you know some pretty nice
hardware and decent cable management and
everything like it doesn't have the i o
shield or anything like that and so this
has got to be like an early early sample
board um this is a funny thing to me
you've got so many pci express lanes so
these things are equipped with uh is it
48 anthony
48. so 48 pci express gen 3 lanes but
there's almost none of it dedicated to
io here
and oh i remember
i remember noticing this about one of
asus's early engineering like prototype
grade boards for this platform but a lot
of time what you'll see on like
repurposed server hardware for desktop
use is you'll see like gaps
like this where stuff that wouldn't make
sense on the desktop like vga
and like a serial port
um
might just get left off and then the
gaps on the pcb are just left so that
they don't have to redesign that for
what is definitely going to be a very
very low volume part they only have to
redesign the parts of the board that
they actually need to change and then
they'll just reuse other stuff so i
think that's why we ended up with really
bare bones io on this particular board
at least that's
one theory like i don't actually know
for sure
so i'm going to go ahead and start start
popping things off here
so note as we go
all the connectors i'm removing so that
is two six pin pci express connectors
going into the motherboard right there
those are for apparently they're
oc
peg underscore one now i don't know if
those are four high power draw graphics
cards being in here because you could
put up to four graphics cards in here
and remember even though four-way sli is
dead as of i think two generations ago
or whenever it was uh overclockers are
still able to enable it for certain
benchmarks so i don't know if these are
for that or if they're extra power for
the cpu i would have to
consult the manual to find that out
but i kind of you know i kind of lean
towards probably
for graphics just because there isn't
anything else for that and there are
plenty o power connectors for the cpu as
we are about to see so as we go up this
edge i'm pulling out our u.2 data cable
for our optane drive down there we've
got two fan connectors for these
beefy boys that are on this very custom
acetech cooler we'll dig into that a
little bit when we remove it this is
going to be a much longer stream than i
expected so uh david how's your back
you good okay well get get buckled in
because this is going to be quite a
thing i didn't realize i was going to be
installing a water cooler on top of
doing a board swap so now here we're
pulling out another power connector and
note this
two 24 pin power connectors
like what
apparently this is optional because it
was clearly working without it but you
can plug two power supplies directly
into this motherboard
like what
also here we're going to go ahead and
keep moving across the top here yeah my
friends that is not two
but four
eight pin cpu power connectors all the
way up at the top of the board on the
left and on the right here now there's
only two installed right now so i guess
the other two are optional if you're not
doing like sub-zero overclocking or
whatever else
but again it gives you some idea of what
they expect
might these poor these poor boards and
cpus might get put through
we're not going to be doing anything
that nuts though we will leave the
extreme overclocking
challenge between like gamers nexus and
and jay's two cents i think so i have a
slight problem uh anthony
um can you i fix it kit me at some point
here
all right um
yeah some point in the relatively near
future because i don't have the torx bit
that i if you could get mine i know for
sure my kit has all the pieces it's in
my office uh on the left of my bench
table thank you
so uh yeah i need these uh i need to
undo these torx screws here i'm pretty
sure the ifixit kit has the right bit
for it
and then i also just need to find where
the crap the screws are on this very
strange
motherboard form factor because i won't
be able to pull the board out without
undoing them
oh i guess this i can take a moment to
talk about the uh the cooler so i
recognize this this is clearly a oh it's
labeled this is clearly an ace attack
aio water cooler but it's unlike any one
that i've seen before something a lot of
people don't know is that while asetek
does provide coolers for consumer brands
that you've heard of like corsair for
example they also do a ton of oem work
in the server space
even going as far as to provide cooling
solutions for large data centers so it's
not surprising necessarily to me to see
a custom solution from acetech it's just
that this one
is
pretty darn weird so the first thing i
noticed was that this
block so this this core
um block and pump design was clearly not
designed for such an immense cpu like it
obviously doesn't cover it so there were
going to be cores of this processor that
were basically not covered by cooling
water
obviously that would be a problem
so what they've done here is as like an
intermediary step
uh yeah no i think it's these ones first
as like an intermediary layer they've
gone and they've thrown this thick
copper plate because even though a cpu
does have an ihs an integrated heat
spreader that is designed to spread out
the heat from the dye apparently that
was not considered enough and they
needed
this nice thick piece of copper to act
as kind of like a heat buffer
so that it could help to absorb and
spread out all the heat that's coming
off the cpu it also clearly didn't work
as well as they were hoping because
they went and included that that ek
solution in the box so here we can get a
look at a couple of things so one
is the carrier plate
uh i like the
carrier i don't know sled you might call
it
are you gonna you're gonna come off
oh the tim breaker oh cool it's right
here
there's a little
icon there yep perfect you're supposed
to pry open it there that's neat okay so
we got a look at this carrier thing here
can you just come off please
there it is okay just gotta release that
clip and that one okay so that's
designed to hold the cpu while you
install it so you don't accidentally
bung it up
is there a bloody bent pin in this
socket
i don't know
well it doesn't matter because i'm going
to be putting that asus board in anyway
wow there's more than one
you got to be kidding me you can really
see it from oh you can really see it
from this angle down here there's a bent
pin there and there's like four of them
here can you see them at all
can you see those four
you can really see it from my angle if
we swap spots yeah you see that
wow okay you guy we were live streaming
this i did nothing
i swear i did nothing
um
all right
yeah that's clearly a bad socket anyway
um so a couple other things we can look
at we can see the sheer
magnitude of this copper plate that
they're using to spread that heat out
that's pretty impressive and then we
also get a look at the cpu itself so
back when intel was demoing this uh word
on the street was that they were just
using kind of uh
tuned xeon
xeon platinum 8176s or 8180s which are
28 cores fit in this socket and they
were just manually changing them to have
an unlocked multiplier well now we get a
specialized chip so i actually don't
remember all of the exact speeds and
feeds off the top of my head so i'm
totally going to cheat and look at my
phone but basically this is the xeon w w
is for workstation
x and i am going to pull yes there it is
sweet
so
let's see it's there 14 nanometer plus
plus process 28 course 56 thread so it
does have hyper threading tech 3.1
gigahertz base and it boosts up to 4.3
gigahertz 3.
yeah 3.8 actually with all cores active
although that's not with avx2 workloads
uh it's got a total of 38
and a half megs of level 3 cash 28 megs
of level 2 cash ridiculous and the tdp
is 255
watts
and of course we can expect that to go
much higher with overclocking so we're
going to go ahead we're going to put
this aside for now we're definitely not
going to drop it
i did send an email asking nicely for a
replacement for my xeon 8180 that i
dropped and nobody has replied to me so
it looks like there's a good chance i'm
either going to have to use engineering
samples or pony up and buy one which
sucks because that's even more expensive
than this one anyway that cpu is not
really going to stand out that much to
anyone who's been watching the the saga
that has been six workstations one cpu
the thing that's really special about it
is just that it's overclockable
all right we can go ahead and
pull this board out now
that gives us a really good feel for the
scale of this thing one thing i really
will say that i like about gigabyte
solution here is that they've gone ahead
and they've implemented the full seven
pci express slots instead of just four
with double spacing like asus has done
on their board but um
unfortunately like i have no idea if i
were to go and reinstall this cpu if
this thing would even work
so uh
if i did have any projects in mind that
required a bunch of pci express slots
then i might not even be able to do them
that's a little frustrating all right so
let's go ahead and lie
this down
almost had the wrong one
now let's turn our attention to this
cooler i'm gonna go ahead and pull it
out but so the first thing that stood
out was that they had to use this copper
plate to increase the effective
size of it just to be able to cool a cpu
of that that magnitude
the second thing was the fans that
they're using on it
so these right here i actually can't
tell the brand but it looks like they're
like pana flows or deltas or something
like that
you can tell just from
oops you can tell just from the plastics
that they use that these are designed to
be high rpm fans because something
actually again this is something a lot
of people might not realize
something a lot of people don't know is
that the force on a fan as it's spinning
is actually significant enough that even
on a lightweight desktop fan like one
from noctua
the the blades will actually spread out
and flatten in a significant way
while they're operating and that can
affect the tolerances of it um so if
you're trying to let's say for example
like what happened with noctua's latest
fan if you're trying to get the blades
really close to the outside of the hub
so you don't have that wasted air gap
there it can be really really difficult
and it also means that if you're
building a high performance high rpm fan
you have to account for that even more
because it's going to be spinning faster
which is going to exacerbate the problem
then the third thing i noticed about it
right so i'm saying these are high
performance fans then the third thing i
noticed about it
oh boy uh do you have clippers anthony
by any chance
clippers or an oh i have a knife it's
okay i'll just use my knife where'd my
knife go
uh david do you know where the knife is
are you gesturing to it or you just
stabilizing yourself
are you just in awe right now
you know okay well i will grab another
knife
yay
now there's a missing knife around here
somewhere that's always that's always
good
all right let's just free this
okay
just a sec
there we go
the third thing i noticed is that on top
of this being a thicker than standard
radiator typical desktop cooling
solutions are going to be the slim style
radiators is what we used to call them i
guess not on top of being thicker this
is an extremely high fin count radiator
so what a higher fin count does is see
you've got your copper tubes that allow
the water to go from here we go
from the inlet all the way down so half
of this is hot water coming down
and the other half is cool water going
up and obviously there's no clear
division between the hot and the cool
water and actually it's all like mostly
the same temperature at the rate that
water moves in a loop like this but
basically it just means that half of
these tubes are carrying this water down
and half of them are carrying them up to
the outlet up here
so what the fin count means is that
these
are usually aluminum fins but these ones
are they copper or aluminum i saw one
that was scratched wow
these are copper fins this is a really
nice radiator this is like
ball inexpensive
uh so you typically have brass in the
tubes and tanks and then aluminum in the
fins but you can see right here that
copper color these are copper fins
anyway
so you can either have these double
triangles like they've done here or you
can just have single ones and when you
have the less dense arrangement of fins
it's more optimized for lower rpm lower
static pressure fans so you go and you
put low performance fans on that it'll
actually do better than if you put those
fans on a thick one like this and
similarly if you take a high fin count
one like this one and put it with those
low performance fans it'll it'll
suffocate it won't be able to push the
air through so you need to pair
uh high density high fin counts uh
radiators with high performance fans and
then vice versa in order to get the best
experience either way
um so yeah this is a this is a crazy
freaking
water cooler
and again they clearly didn't think it
was enough
all right
so we've gone as far as tearing this
whole thing down i guess now it's time
to build it back up and then maybe like
i don't know fire it up run some run
some cinebench do like a blender test or
like whatever it is you guys want i mean
it's it's your live stream so
ah
i'm so sorry
there we go
all right i gotta clear a little bit of
space here
the uh the amount of room that a build
like this takes up is is significantly
more than i'm used to because like the
mother the components
the components are also large
so this right here is our rog dominus
extreme this has not been tested yet
which is exactly what i think intel was
probably trying to avoid when they sent
us a completed system rather than having
us build it ourselves
but you know theoretically it should be
fine
and wow that's that's fancy it comes
with this nice little like foam
you know test bench station effectively
underneath it so i can go ahead and put
that on top of the box it's friggin
heavy feature wise it's very similar to
the other one so you've got your 224
pins you've got is that even more yeah
you've got even more
cpu power connectors two eight pin
eps and then on each side and then an
additional six pin pci express although
it could be that again those are
for the graphic slots somehow no no i
don't think so because they've got an
easy plug down here they've got an
additional six pin down here that i
believe is probably going to be for
these guys
um
yeah your usb 3. yeah you know what who
cares let's go ahead and get this thing
built
there's nowhere to put anything
it's fine accessories wise
nothing is labeled thank you asus i mean
this whole platform is not really
intended for consumers though so i can
kind of understand why the documentation
is a little bit lacking in fact i don't
even see a manual in here because it's
going to be system integrators that are
going to be the the ones who can who
even can get access to this hardware uh
no this does appear to be a manual wow
manual bunch of stickers not what i'm
looking for what i really want is the i
o shield but you know that's okay don't
label anything you guys just have plain
black boxes
um you know it's fine i got all the time
in the world it's not like i'm live
streaming or anything wait why is this
not going out you know what it doesn't
matter
where is my i o shield what even are
these what is this
wait no
what
wow okay so uh one of the things that
asus does on some of their high-end
boards is uh they've got an extra slot
on them i didn't even notice this
they've got an extra slot that kind of
looks like another memory slot so you
got your
your six channels uh so six slots total
on either side three channels on either
side and then you've got these
additional ones both on the right and
the left called dim.2 so they look like
a memory slot but they're not they're
actually just running standard pci
express and then it's just using a
proprietary connector here and you're
supposed to install these puppies
so these are
single dim.2 to dual m.2 adapters and
these are fancy ones now so you can
actually you can see the mounting
hardware down here um that support still
just two two m.2 drives but with like
massive heat sinks on them and they go
ahead they include a couple of those for
you so that's uh that's a nice touch
thank you guys
oh wow had a panic moment there i
thought for a second uh
one of them was using a square ilm and
one of them was using a narrow ilm but
they're both using narrow ilm so on on
intel server platforms there's actually
two different
types of
um like
cooler mount configurations that are
available but i don't see an io shield
in here
is there no io shielding oh bloody hell
yeah it's integrated on the board
i swear i saw it i swear i saw it before
you said it please believe me do you
believe me anthony
i don't think he believes me that's fine
um
i don't remember what i was talking
about anymore
dang it
that's fine let's go ahead and get this
thing installed so uh
come on down we can go ahead and remove
our cover oh right square versus narrow
ilm so you can either have it square for
boards that have more space or there's a
narrow version like this a rectangular
version if everything's all full of dim
slots and dim.2 slots and fan headers
and all kinds of crazy nonsense like
that so
let's go ahead and grab our cpu carrier
let's see if i can remember which way it
goes ah i don't have to wonderful it's
got a label on it
i do love it when things work out but
which way does it go trying to remember
uh-huh
yep hopefully this way seems like this
way
yeah sure no that doesn't seem to be
working very well at all does it give me
a sec
yes
quite
there's a lot of uh there's a lot of
play there
it doesn't go in this way does it no it
can't
because this has to go up through the
cooler
okay
thinking
oh this is embarrassing i really wish
i'd paid it so i've never actually used
these um
you don't
technically have to
wow should i just not
i've never used these when i've done lga
3647 installs before because none of the
engineering sample boards that i got had
them included and the cpus didn't come
with them at least at that time anyway
so i always just
plunked the cpu into the socket and then
installed my cooler on top and i guess
that's going to be the approach we're
taking because i can't figure out how to
put it on right now
should i just
chuck it on there after the fact
sure
why not there now it's on
heck yeah
push latch
wait
is there an actual
what that devil
oh
sure
yeah
yeah why not
now
obviously it's not going to hold it in
very well like this actually it does
seem to be holding it in oh
uh
not very well you know what so we're
going to go ahead and we're going to put
our cpu cooler on
now
so this is one of ek's phoenix kits
which
i haven't actually personally installed
before but it couldn't be that
complicated it's ck they usually have
pretty good mounting hardware
like i said this is ending up being a
much longer stream than i thought but
hopefully you guys are into it
how many people are watching right now
anthony
[Music]
okay so apparently people do care about
this
people care that i didn't clean off the
thermal compound so i'ma let you guys in
on a little secret
for the best possible results you should
definitely do that
but we're talking like a degree
honestly
i have actually tested it i never did a
video about it called can you reuse
thermal compound um because
i didn't want to deal with all the
complaints about it because even if the
results were what they were people were
still gonna hate it
but actually no i do not intend to
bother replacing the thermal compound it
will spread out again when i put this
new block on it i'm very very sorry
if it overheats you guys get to tell me
that you told me so okay
deal
okay deal
all right let's throw our
hardware in here
oh boy i get to assemble my own mounting
hardware for the cpu block that should
be fine
so once again we are looking at
a very beefy radiator but this one's a
little bit different so in order to
avoid patent disputes with folks like
ace attack ek has gone and integrated
the pump over here i believe that's the
pump either that or that i don't know it
doesn't really matter and then you can
see they've gone with a slightly
different approach to the radiator this
is
still copper but it's using
still dense but just these uh use
instead of the the double like kind of
triangle configuration
please remove before use let's do that
before we forget
hey
once
once i have done that in my entire
career both just as a pc tech and as a
youtuber
you never live it down
the worst part was that i had given alex
a really hard time about it like a
couple months prior and then i went and
did it
um
yeah actually that really doesn't look
like enough thermal compound was left
behind shoot
okay i will have to reapply my thermal
compound do we have any paper towel
handy by any chance there's
usually some on set is there not
wow
they did a really good job of cleaning
up on monday do you mind anthony
anthony do you mind anthony grabbing
something yeah sure
compound too uh no i've got thermal
paste they'll i'll just use the included
stuff it doesn't really matter
all right in the meantime i can go ahead
and i can mount this radiator so i'm
going to need different screws
because you can see they've got it
configured for exhaust out the front of
the case actually that's the same way
the other one was configured but it's
the fans
on the case side instead of the route on
the case side and they use different
types of screws so i'm going to go ahead
and just kind of pop this in here and
then go look for whatever it is that
they intend for me to use
oh
you might want to come around this side
david because this is where most of the
action is going to be for a little bit
here
all right
okay
uh oh
uh anthony
oh you're back good excellent oh wait no
never mind they did include some fan
screws
so this looks like it's like an intel
care package as opposed to something
that just arrived out of the box from uk
because they've got exactly just the fan
screws that i need and there's no
standard radiator mounting screws as far
as i can tell
thank you sir
oh
no problem we got this all right
nope
so let's go ahead and put those there
i'm not going to put all 12 in i'm sorry
you guys
but i will put in six
that will be our little compromise
oh man these front panel cables are
getting in my way a little bit here
hopefully
i can
squish them
enough
that i can get this rad in
that is really tight
that is
that is a really tight fit
i mean
i would expect that everything about
building a system like this is going to
be sort of
not for the average builder like not for
the novice
um
and
i do kind of understand the rationale
behind making this pretty much a system
integrators only part
with that said i mean
you know it's
nice to be given the choice as a
consumer as well
um do you want to check anthony has this
processor showed up on like new egg or
amazon yet
i'm just kind of curious
oh man
so these
gaps are a little bit some of them
anyway oh the tolerances are not very
good on this case i think either that or
it was stretched before so the gaps on
this side are a little bit wider than
these ones and the heads of these screws
are really small for a fan screw so it's
actually slipping through on the right
hand side there but it's
not going to impede us i don't think
new egg for three grand hey
not available
okay
so there you go it's anywhere from
eighteen hundred to three i sincerely
doubt you'll get it for 1800.
oh the dominus
the motherboard
the motherboard is two grand
what
wow well that's a new one i mean even
like the old sr2 and like
skull trail boards and stuff we're only
in the you know sort of six hundred
dollar range if i recall correctly like
six seven eight
wow that's a new
that's a new high mark i think
at least that i'm aware of
all right
so that's in there
well enough i'm not uh i'm not concerned
about that coming off
i am a little concerned about just sort
of like generally breaking this as i
continue to build it here because i'm
trying to go fast to be respectful of
your guys's time
and also trying to do it somewhat
properly so you guys don't yell at me
all right we will clean the thermal
compound i have backed down on that one
dun
i always do a dry pass first
you actually can remove a lot more of it
that way
and then you're just left with
the remnants let me go at it with the
isopropyl
who's asking
riley wants to know how much longer oh
he has to shoot tech linked doesn't
haha he
wow yeah how about that there riley
[Music]
ah
okay
that's good
uh
let's go ahead and install this
motherboard then i guess
and hope that the cpu doesn't fall out
of the socket while we do that
wouldn't that be embarrassing breaking
another intel 28 core yeah that's really
not holding that in there at all
well i might have made my life a little
bit more difficult but it wouldn't be
the first time it's certainly not the
last
let's go ahead and just lie the keys
down let's get up
lay the case down
must be friday
i need to lie down
all right
oh
so i'm sorry david but you're not going
to be able to see this very well i guess
unless do you have an angle there
there's an apple box do you need an
apple box
i will applebox you ready here we go
all right
there's some movie magic for you guys at
home
it's not close enough oh dang it
all right well
you got this
thank you sir
there was really nothing i could do to
help you
ah
okay
so i actually oh wow
this board
is a little different
ah we're just going to go ahead and see
if we can clear this
clear this space that we need
so instead of being so long like the
other one with the with the 10 slot
configuration
asus starts their pci express slots
right here it's only a standard atx
length
so what that means
is that these fans are in the way
of
our cooler right now
oh boy
ah
is that what's interfering
it does kind of seem like it but
see i'm also not entirely sure
because it seems like there's a bunch of
room between the headers here
but something is stopping me no
it's this
how interesting
so if i could
okay
all right
maybe it's that these are pulled out too
far right now
because yeah it's not the fans
it's these capacitors that are built
into these cables
ah
yeah this is not
not amazing
what's happening right now
this is what we get
i'm sure over at intel they're just like
minus
this is why we sent you a completed
system this is literally exactly the
reason that we did the
you knew that you knew
but we dared to be different
oh my goodness i just can't even
like i just can't even get it at all
you know what we're close though
oh man
just that all those cables
i don't think we can do it i don't think
we can do it i think i have to liberate
the cables
first
and then i'm just going to have to
figure out how the crap
to get them over there
oh boy
um
wow that's gonna be interesting
this thing is so
big it's just unwieldy
okay and yeah
what's under it
okay usb 3.
come on
come on baby
just get in there
you got it
you can do it
oh
okay
now after all that
um of course the because the boards are
different sizes
um
not all of the mounting holes line up so
there's no nothing to plug into here or
here
uh
yeah it's very funny anthony very funny
so i have to take it back out
all the things you guys don't normally
see in the video right this is this is
the beauty
this is the beauty of doing it live uh
the beauty and the agony all right
so let's
have a look-see shall we
we've got one
two three four across the top you know
what
two is enough
we've got
two more
right here and here
those ones do appear to line up but that
right there
that was going to be a big old problem
for us so we had an extra
that was probably actually scratching on
the back of this back plate here
that was going to be a real big problem
we could have well i mean it's got a
back plate so maybe not as big of a
problem so it would have flexed the
board a little bit but it probably would
have been okay but if you don't have
a back plate on the back of your
motherboard then what you can do in a
situation like that is you can end up
actually scratching
the back of your board uh breaking
traces and effectively well destroying
it
so we don't want any of that going on
guys don't let me forget that i put this
bit here i will need that
let's go ahead and pull that stand off
out first though
okay
so we got this guy
and then this guy
and then this guy yep that should line
up just nicely
then
we've got this guy which does look like
it is lined up perfectly fine we've got
this grommet to fix okay that's just my
ocd getting the better of me this
doesn't actually matter we don't
actually have to do this
ah now i can't stop
okay i have to do this oh wow it's worse
than before
just
please go oh please just go in
entering
panic mode
in five
four
three
two
one panic mode averted okay it's fine
uh okay
then we also need
this one
so we can go ahead and pop one in there
that's the one we took out
and then
this guy is not doing anything so we
might as well move it up
sorry you guys can't really see what i'm
doing right now
all right
and this one
is over
here oh
this is a really awkward angle to work
at but feel don't feel bad for me feel
bad for david he's working harder than i
am right now by a long shot
all right
here we go
uh for those of you who don't know david
is uh the camera guy who's shooting
right now
anthony is working the least heart out
of all of us
he just has to like fetch stuff
occasionally
and drink pepsi
diet pepsi i'm sure
see i know his drink preferences
he's very particular
okay so the board's in
and
everything that i was expecting to have
a standoff in it does
so we're going to call that good enough
and we're going to go ahead and screw it
in
let's try not to drop any of these
screws
oh i've already got one loaded up here
oh wow this board supports everything
it's even got a oh wait i thought that
said thunderbolt header does it have a
thunderbolt header
i'd be pretty impressed if it did yep it
does
got support for thunderbolt got all the
things
two u.2s on this puppy you got eight
zeta slots
um
you got those
ridiculous
four
m.2s
what's interesting though is that
even with the size of this thing
it doesn't have a single
m.2 in like a standard
configuration just lying flat on the
board
so you have to use those dim.2 cards
interesting
now
what's also interesting is that i appear
to be short
one
screw
hmm
i find that to be
a little bit concerning
so i can actually check
why i'm sure to screw fairly easily so
two across the top two down the middle
one more here and four across the bottom
two two one
four so that should be nine
and i'm just going to check from the
back one two
three
where are you
oh okay
two three four yeah
five six
seven
which ones am i missing
one two
the three ah this one
eight
nine
yeah
okay
that's right why do i have an extra
screw
oh boy
oh
ha
ha ha
ah the screws for the graphics card
okay
let's just carry on then shall we
was did the chat figure it out anthony
uh no they were too busy
when i'm cringing when i picked up the
case oh right the cpu's not in yet
okay well you could have told me that
thanks anthony i know you've always got
my back
well you're stabbing me in the face
oh
the cpu wasn't what sorry
okay this is the worst peel of all time
came off in three pieces
terrible
terrible no one buy this board eighteen
hundred dollars worst peel ever
just kidding that's not that's not why
anyone cares about this board
okay
so now
we've got new problems um
i have basically no way to access the
eight pin connectors over there but
first we're gonna we're gonna deal with
this once and for all
we've gotta assemble
the mounting
for the block i'm just gonna have to
figure out exactly how to do that
um
a bunch of like
wow you know when your cooler comes with
not one not two not three but four allen
wrenches you're in for a super duper
good time
i think someone's at the door oh boy
we've got stoppers
we've got what even
the crap
are we looking at here
okay
wow instructions
are there instructions
i really
all right
well
you saw it folks
this was it this was the point where
this stream went completely off the
rails
okay
hopefully we have all of those thumb
screws
and hopefully these are the instructions
these are the instructions for the
acetech cooler
come back
i really really really need that i need
that to not
be gone
does this not have
nope okay well it's not clear exactly
how this goes together but
i like to think of myself as reasonably
clever so i am sure i will figure it out
basically
we've got four
basically we've got four of these
um
and they need to go
through these holes
and hold this to that
um sure i'd love to know where the
instructions are
uh okay so the chat says
the instructions are stuck in on the
side of the packing in the box
stuck inside the packing of the box
i don't see them i don't think are they
referring to this that's just a
protector for the uh
oh
thank you chat
ah
beautiful
okay
how we doing here oh boy these might
just be the standard instructions for
the standard kit that doesn't go on lga
3647.
uh yeah i think this is just like
how to fill your loop holy crap this
isn't filled of course not
oh boy
and no
there are no instructions for lga 3647
stop
just go there
all right
so
there are a few things i know one
that the threading is slightly different
between the corner screw
standoffs and the
ones down the sides so i just need to
figure out which ones of these are which
and then i can't go wrong
are they different
maybe they're not different
you know what
we're gonna yolo it
we're gonna put
with thermal compound
we go oh wow there's nothing on this ihs
at all not even intel confidential
that's really unusual
okay hopefully this is enough goop
these are really big cpus and require a
lot of goop
so we're just going to put that on there
a little like that
and we are just going to screw these on
because
that's all we really have to go on at
this point
so here's an allen key
actually i'm doing this out of order it
should be this one first
oh boy
i do have the prompter remote you can
you'll have to give me one second here
though
oh boy
oh man
hi
you know normally i stream because it's
fun
but this is just stressful
this must be just as stressful for you
guys to watch as it is for me to do too
so i don't know if anyone's having a
good time right now
here you go brandon
17 000 people 17 000 people can be wrong
i've actually seen much larger numbers
of people be wrong
in the past
talk quieter
are you guys shooting on the tech linked
set
oh okay so we're just going to be
shooting two things simultaneously see
when you said you'd figure it out i just
i kind of assumed you'd figure out
um something different
like shooting over in the lounge or
something but that's okay
we're just
we're doing tech linked right over there
on the other side of that wall and we're
doing this live stream right here on
this side of this wall
yeah so that'll be tonight's episode
okay so i've put in the two screws on
the corners and now i'm putting in the
ones on the sides so the first two are
just to keep the block kind of on the
socket and these two actually wrench the
cpu down
into the uh the pins
into the lga
actually is technically the lga the
thing on the bottom of the cpu or on the
motherboard
i think it's the motherboard so i think
we're going into the lga the land grid
array
okay
oh man
i'm sorry david this ended up being a
much much bigger project than i
anticipated
that's on me that's on me not on you
okay
the good news is that as far as i can
tell
this is working
it's working and it's what we expected
oh right what we don't know
is
if this is actually full of water or not
oh boy so do they ship this empty or
filled
uh
oh man
now i kind of wish i'd used the
aesthetic one again
instead of switching to this i mean
we're not going to be overclocking it
right now anyway
why did i care
why did i build it overkill
it's like a question i've asked myself
many times
why did we make it overkill
i don't know
oh man
okay
do you happen to know if the phoenix
comes pre-filled and if you like drain
it then expand it anthony
i think it does something let's find out
i doubt it i really doubt it
okay here we go
all in one expandable blah blah blah
blah blah blah blah blah
okay blah blah oh
right
so i think it is supposed to come
pre-filled but it's also supposed to
come with quick disconnects this is just
a completely different
product manual
so removing the expansion balloon yeah
ours doesn't have an expansion balloon
i have no
idea if it's full
yeah
sort of
i mean it's a phoenix in the sense that
it's got the same radiator and pump
combo as the phoenix
but it's a different block it doesn't
come with the gpu expansion module like
it's only
sorta a phoenix
um
i mean it doesn't really
okay so why do they include these
if not to fill it or something
and see they've got these extra stoppers
too
what are they for
i don't
know
yeah okay you're right worst case
scenario we start pumping air and we
destroy the pump okay
that is a worst case scenario and then
we have to install the acetate cooler
back on
but that's okay i think these people are
enjoying the process
hopefully
okay
so let's go ahead
and plug our 24 pin power in that we can
access
whew this is the primary boom
then we can
loosen up our what is this that's usb3
okay so actually that we can do as well
okay we're getting all the easy stuff
out of the way right now
that goes right about
come on baby just oh just go in easily
please thank you
that goes right about there
thank you
then
we can
loosen our u.2 a little bit here see if
liberate that a bit
nope we cannot uh
that's fine now i can tip it up right
cool
uh yes we can liberate this a bit but
we'll need to cut some zip ties
oh i found my other knife hey
this is looking up
a little
ah
i could really use clippers right now
that would be a lot
better
we go
no i'm good
uh nope hold on not
yet remember
do as i say not as i do and i'm saying
don't do that
all right
down it goes
go ahead and plug in our u.2
boom
we are making real progress now
here's our front panel audio no that's
usb and that
doesn't happen to line up with any usb
header on this board but that's fine we
don't really need usb anyway um
and now
i just need
i just need the power switch
so they use a different pin out so i'm
just going to take this tape that was so
helpfully
applied to this to make it easy to
install
and i'm going to remove it
and we're going to go ahead and plug our
power switch in right about
yeah
gorgeous
for an audio you know what what the hey
let's do it
you only live
one time
all right
now we need to solve a real problem
here at the back
are my two eight pin connectors
obviously
there is no way whatsoever
to get those through the back of this it
is completely
closed up with this board
they are also cable managed in yes
anthony i take it back i would like
clippers i can't keep
i can't keep doing that i will cut
myself eventually
yeah yeah for the views no no no i would
rather not cut myself today
ah
okay you know what we also need
some eight pin extensions
yes
that's our solution
uh cable mod to the rescue so uh david
uh how how much can you follow me
this is your this is your umbilical cord
isn't it
that's it that's it that's all okay well
maybe uh you can put yourself over here
and then i'll i'll wave to you from over
where the cable stuff is i think you can
take the power with you actually
you know what you stay there you stay
nope okay i'm coming okay so i'm going
over there i'm going over to
cable land cable land
can you see me
i'm going to cable land i need some
eight pin extensions
uh oh i could have sent anthony actually
that might have been smart um
well
you know what i'm gonna grab the box
that i think contains eight pin
extensions and then if it doesn't then
you can bail us out anthony
nope okay
this is so ridiculous can you get
through here david i did it once
oh yeah
like a boss do you need help
can i give you a hand getting up
okay
the good news is this is exactly what we
needed
wait
no this is not exactly what we needed
these are just modular cables i thought
these had female ends
ah
okay you know what i'm just
i'm taking this project to the floor
there's not enough space up there
anymore
okay anthony my hopes are
my hopes are fading uh
oh
there's one wait no is this pci express
bloody hell i think this is pci express
uh anthony you might need to look for
eight pin extensions
uh
you could try one of the other bins of
cable mod stuff
or you could try
um
i don't yeah no no no we won't have time
to wait for an order uh you could
you could try the specialty pc power bin
as well
i mean there's an extension so yeah
that's what led me to believe there
might be some extensions in here
six pin pci express extension
is there gonna be everything but eight
pin eps extension in here
come on
oh there's one
could there be another one
come on ups
yes wait i have two anthony
yes
victory is mine i think
see the thing that i don't know is
whether this asus board also allows you
to just plug in
two eight pin connectors like the
gigabyte one
and what i also don't know
is where they would go
so
we are going to have to either consult
the manual
or trial and error this this sucker
first though
we need to remove these
because we are clearly not cable
managing them up the back anymore
okay
there we go
then we are just going to run them in
the messiest way possible
right up over top of the cpu
oh yeah
oh yes
wait you know what no we can do a little
better than that we're going to go up
right here
do you see it
can you see me
can you see
yeah okay
see the cable
heck yeah all right
so it's coming out right up here
ow
okay
wonderful
[Music]
i don't know whether to laugh or cry
this was not what i intended to do
all of this
i just thought you know what simple
motherboard swap they'll be the same
size and shape
that's why we have standards
standards
yeah i'm sure asus
anyone anyone who's been sort of
following this platform a little more
carefully than me is probably just like
laughing
at me this whole time
i don't know if intel's laughing i think
intel's crying
okay i just need i just need this to go
in there
wait
is this one piece
bloody hell this one's pci express
anthony you might need to uh
ah
no wait
how the heck am i even gonna plug these
in anyway i forgot about the real
challenge
the real challenge is that these fans
are in the way i can't even access the
the sockets anyway
okay
so this one
is going to go over there somehow we
hope
oh could i do it
wait
which one
i think i can
i think i can plug it in
uh uh motherboard box motherboard box
where'd it go
here
wait did it come with a manual
yes it did it did okay
come on
just open
without the weight of the board in there
it doesn't uh
it doesn't fall open anymore
okay the manual was in here
home stretch now home stretch baby
we got this
if i can plug this thing in i will be so
happy
sorry about that
all right blah blah blah blah blah
blah blah blah blah
installation tools and components yeah
like your case is going to look like
that
say to optical disk drive optional you
bet it is
all right
here are the labels so atx power
connectors for
uh eight pin
a12 b12
a3 b3 what the crap is this labeling
okay
please tell me which ones are optional
please
just have it laid out this is the one
you need
this is the one you don't need
come on
hit me with that useful information here
we go
okay so there's a1
there's a1 to a3
that appear to go
from
left to right out that way
and then there's b1 to b3 which go right
to left out that way
so
for a fully configured system do not
forget to connect the eight pin power
plugs otherwise the system will not boot
doesn't say
which this motherboard supports up to
two power supplies it's so great
before i flip the proper and push down
firmly until the
nope
it doesn't say so here's what we're
gonna try we're gonna try
a1
and b1
and see if that's enough
so i think
i can put this in
without taking out that fan
there's a little thing in my way though
get out little thing
oh it's a fan connector
ah
my ifixit kit
i need a spudger
oops
i already took a spudger out earlier and
i didn't put it back so this is my
second spudger
i'm sorry riley
okay
is that in
yeah it's in okay so one's in
and this one might just be long enough
to make it without an extension
now the problem
is that these don't lock together on
this particular power supply which is a
real hassle for me because it means i
have to both hold them together
and plug them in
at the same time
all in a gap that i can't really
reach you know what
forget it
hey riley
are you done did you just asmr the whole
episode yeah
nice these uh
this grill is too wide to put a fan on
top of it
okay
all right with this fan out of the way
i'll be able to plug in the
second eight pin power connector here oh
anthony did you ever go get a 2080 ti
oh it's fine to turn that off
i'm done with that bench yeah if you
don't mind we're pretty close to
graphics card install now
oh i can i can smell it
i can smell it
we're close
just
bend
is it
oh good
because i can't stop and think about
whether it's interesting or not i'm just
trying to build the computer
the computer i should have never taken
apart
you know what's hilarious
is i'm planning another live stream
where i put another thing that i should
never have taken apart back together um
i'm going to put that red camera back
together
and i'm going to do it live
that's the plan
i'm going to try anyway
i mean
i think people kind of get a kick out of
watching me struggle anyway so that's
true
if nothing else
the people will be entertained
are you not entertained
go in
i just like i can't get in there can you
see how tight this is
it's too tight to fit a camera in to see
what i'm doing that's for sure
just go okay let's try one at a time
see because i can't get my fingers in
there so i just have to maneuver it
using the cable got one
halfway in
if anyone from evga is watching that is
why you need the two halves of your
eight pin if you're gonna have a four
plus four that's why you need them to
lock together because sometimes you're
building under
sub-optimal circumstances
and this is nothing if not sub-optimal
everything that's going on right now
oh thank you sir that's beautiful oh
still warm all right
uh
let's just throw that back on there i
guess
we're making real progress now my
friends i really i really you know what
i don't wanna i don't wanna ruin this
pump anthony can you check intel's email
and see if they said if that thing is
pre-filled or not
thank you
it would be
tremendous to to know
before i turn it on
because we're actually getting
dangerously close to that
pardon me expression all right
uh screwdriver
let's go ahead and install our graphics
card in the top slot here
and we will also need this
cover
fantastic
so that's interesting we also ended up
with somehow
we're one screw short instead of one
screw extra now so i only have one screw
to put in the graphics card when i had
two when i took this thing apart
i don't know what's a bigger concern
screws left over or not enough
vote
let me know let me know in the chat
what's worse
all right
the peel tab fell off okay asus you guys
got to step up your peel game here this
is the worst
worst motherboard peeling experience
i've had in quite some time
all right so that's in
it's like
barely supported by this thing
go ahead and screw it in
also i think we're gonna oh yeah we're
gonna need the pci express power
connectors that used to be plugged into
that gigabyte board
just for this graphics card it needs uh
two eight pins
and a single six pin isn't that gorgeous
folks
beautiful
okay
what was i thinking
i don't
know sometimes
okay
ram
let's just
walk this over here now this is yet
another thing that can go wrong today
because this ram
is validated for the cpu clearly
and that is a big factor these days
because
um the uh the integrated memory
controller is well it's integrated it's
built right into the cpu
um but you can still get
um weird compatibility issues from board
to board let's find out what we're
dealing with here so this is samsung 8
gig 2666.
so eight gigs times six would be what 48
gigs
dang
all right let's go ahead and pop these
tabs ooh that graphics card is still
very toasty so it was running uh 8k
video playback acceleration like gpu
acceleration and stuff
upstairs that's going to be a video
coming pretty soon
well actually it's funny that might not
be that soon so that'll give you guys
some idea what our video cue looks like
because i shot that like two hours ago
okay
here we go
they say nothing nope
it's optional for people who want to
overclock well i'm certainly glad i put
it in then because i'll definitely be
overclocking on this stream just kidding
i will not be
i i'm going to be
happy enough if this whole thing
boots at all and if it doesn't post
i really don't think i can stick around
long enough to troubleshoot the whole
thing because i have to catch a plane
later today i am going to a wedding
so
good luck everybody
here we go
that's it it's done
uh i will i will try a couple things so
i will at least try more eight pin
connectors to see if that's the problem
oh
i need
a power cable
yes here it is
and that is one
oh you can like hear
it sounds like knuckles cracking
i will need a power cable
here it is
oh that's fine
okay i will need a
portable nuclear generator
nah just kidding the outlet should be
fine we're only running at stock speed
with a single graphics card but this
thing could be loaded up to draw more
power than you could provide with a
single outlet i am pretty sure
i need power for my monitor and then i
will also need some kind of display
cable ah here we go there's one plugged
into the monitor already oh man i am
pretty nervous you guys
let's see if we get lights
do we have any any indicator lights
whatsoever on the board
we do
and they're rgb
all right
moment of truth time yeah there's like a
display on here full color display this
thing's ridiculous okay
wait
wait a minute
stop
uh actually let's find out if it posts
first but this thing's going to overheat
really quickly because
there's no power plugged into the pump
i need
this
we can still find out if it posts
usually
you have enough time
oh
that actually might not be a terrible
sign it turned off
yep
cpu
blah blah blah blah okay stuck at bd for
a while here remember
back to cpu okay that might not be a
great sign
come on baby code79
vga
come on
hey
there it is okay post let's turn it off
quick
okay now we need to figure out
um
where this goes
so
uh
i don't know
what the hell
excuse me pardon my uh
my foul language
because i didn't see anything on the top
of
the
radiator unit
that looked like a plug i mean the good
news is hey i only put in six of the
screws
that's what i call
planning ahead
it's not about truth it's about branding
you know
planning ahead oh
can i just rip this off because they go
through no these two are stuck pretty
good
okay
so show me
the power ports
so one of these looks like an rpm sense
and one of them looks like power
but where do they go
where do you go
my plugies oh
i didn't even notice this check that out
neat so there's power and then here's
um
tachometer
cool so all the fans are actually
powered off this single thing too that's
actually that's pretty elegant good job
ek
that's smart use of the space that
otherwise just would have been pointless
and tank space
actually i guess we can just leave this
like this because
you only do live once and also
because that way if we have to fill
this loop we will already have access to
it
uh oh yeah i could also just check if
it's filled uh good thinking anthony
uh yeah we can just check if it's filled
i fix it to the rescue actually i'm not
going to use my fix-it kit for that um
i don't want to ruin it
okay
we're almost there david
almost there
it's full
ah sweet water
good
excellent
ah pre-felt oh
you know what
screw it
ah the sweet sound of pumping
and my weak justification for this fan
hanging here is that we need some
cooling for the memory
yeah
there you go
there was an old product called the
antec spot cool that was basically this
it screwed into uh
like a motherboard standoff and then it
just had this like uh like our kind of
articulating arm thing
that you could use to just kind of
position it wherever
now hold on just a minute here
49 gigs of ram that doesn't seem right
wait yes it does 48 okay
okay cool detected devices u.2 intel 480
gig obtained blah blah blah blah
cpu fan speed error that's fine we
weren't oh can i get a keyboard and
mouse by any chance
no no i said can i get one
still no
no okay uh please
thank you
anthony so this is fantastic
everything actually somehow miraculously
appears to be working
and this is why i never learn
ah okay
neat
so all we need is a keyboard and mouse
uh oh i can plug in networking now as
well
i wonder if this thing has 10 gig
networking
because you never know when you get into
high-end products
either they include everything you could
ever want or need or they include
nothing because they assume you have
enough money to buy whatever else it is
you could possibly want or need
go either way
oh i guess i could look at the box while
anthony's over there
that would answer my question
uh
well that stuff's going to fall out so
i'll do it like this
lan aquancha 10 gig land yup regular
intel lan so you have something that
works before you install drivers
um
you got your wi-fi 2x2
ac bluetooth
v5 interesting so this is an eeb board
wow
so asus managed to make their board a
standard size
oh thank you anthony
i actually didn't look that closely at
it as i was going but this is a standard
size board it's ssieb
i mean it doesn't fit in a lot of things
but uh
that's better than proprietary
like oh yeah i guess you'll be needing
to get a new case
cool
f1 to run setup
in that beautiful
so let's find out how they had it set so
multi-core enhancement was set to auto
so i guess that might be on would be my
guess
uh oh wait
no wait right intel didn't set this up
this is a new board okay ah so this
doesn't really tell us anything let's
just tell us say seuss's defaults
well screw it let's just do it then boom
please boot
now usually
it's not a problem to swap from one
board with the same chipset to another
board with the same chipset now your
windows license might freak out a little
bit
but where you really run into trouble is
swapping between dissimilar
architectures so if you have
okay that's potentially not good oh you
know what's really funny
is that's the same uh error we got
earlier so three more cycles of this and
it might work david
yeah it's the bug code ndis driver um so
where you really run into trouble is
switching between dissimilar
architectures like trying to go from
this down to you know an intel
sandy bridge or something or going from
amd to intel or vice versa that sort of
thing
um you can't even run into trouble too
though just like swapping out sort of
too many things at once like your
graphics card and your network card and
you know something else but uh i don't
know i have uh
i actually have a fair bit of faith that
this is going to work out i cut myself
that's how you can tell it's a it's a
good build
a little bit of sweat blood and tears
you can't get there without the blood
oh i think i'm supposed to file a safety
uh
report for that what's it called again
incident
yeah i don't remember
if you get cut it
i yeah i did a little bit although i
think might not have been cutting myself
so much as just my hands are really dry
because the air so dry and it kind of
split
so hard to say
what i do know is that i am staring at a
windows desktop how's the screen
brightness for you david
i can go a little brighter
i can go a lot brighter
how's that oh wow is that right more
more you want more i got more for you
give us more
is that good
cool
so why don't we start with a good
old-fashioned cinebench run
wow
that's pretty fast
what kind of clock speed are we running
out here
so all core clock of yeah it finished
too fast and i didn't get a chance one
moment please let's try that again i
love how intel tuned some little funny
things about this install like how big
task manager is out of the box so you
can see all the threads and like see how
they're correctly aligned here so we're
at 2.8 gigahertz all cores there
but it was kind of jumping around a
little bit let's try that one more time
four thousandths in a bench score
love it is it supposed to be 3.3
is it 2.8 oh no i think 3.8 is max boost
i'm not sure
that oh this is an avx workload okay so
we do already know that avx workloads
are going to result in lower clock
speeds because they are a bit more
punishing um so hey where do you keep
all the blender benchmark stuff
uh
okay
oh crap
uh oh shoot are we not uh
oh that's okay the aqua no the aquanchia
drivers aren't pre-loaded because this
is a different board i just need to
switch nick ports it's fine
oh what it what is what does rsu's
contact have to say
oh yeah tell them it's good i got it
oh well i don't know unless i plug them
into the wrong ones in which case he can
feel free to correct me
input one
ah
okay well that's not how i did it
but it's working so i'm sticking with it
uh okay so so what
i actually haven't set up the blender
benchmark you need to install the full
blender right
oh really
oh
i did not know that
let's grab it
dang it where's just the download link
you guys please
this is
what is going on it keeps scrolling down
instead of up that's really weird yeah
here we go
oh i don't know if i want a daily build
oh fine ah
okay
i guess so
save
sure why not
ah now
uh what else do we want to do on this
thing now that we've got it up and
running i mean we could check temps
right
yes we could
cool yes let's do that hold on let me
just grab hardware monitor real quick
here
are you coming down oh edge man did they
not install chrome for me
they didn't
it's like the first thing i install just
so i don't have to deal with it
uh
cinebench extreme right here it is this
is so this is four times the workload of
the regular cinebench and is basically a
new benchmark that um was this is like a
community thing right yeah i think so
so it's a modified version so that
instead of seeing these really high core
count processors like the 32 core thread
ripper or the 2990 like this one instead
of just seeing them just like rip
through it and then not really giving
them a chance to either sometimes get up
to full speed or
like settle into their their their
sustained uh like power limit um this
one is designed to take four times
longer so that it'll really separate the
the truly awesome from the just like
very
super awesome
let's find out where that download went
all right that's a zip
uh we can go ahead and extract that so
you can tell everything we're doing
today is very fresh
extract
blender yep go for it
uh i sincerely doubt these are xmp
sticks
yeah they're like uh
yeah is that gary
oh okay sure
thing okay apparently this board will do
up to 4 000 megahertz uh i really don't
think this ram is going to do that it's
just some pretty bare bones ram i
actually didn't check the ics like they
might be really good ones or something
and very overclockable but i'm not
counting on anything right now
why are these taking so long to extract
is this like a network bottleneck or
something
because the cpu is barely being touched
four percent yeah
yeah it's a ton of small files
so there you go
oh yeah wow so this one's only
80 megs but it's 2300 files
well
yep there's your problem
got em
did they preload anything else on this
oh candy crush
well we can play candy crush in the
meantime it's time for a let's play did
you know wrapped candy something
something oh man if i accept these terms
of service am i going to regret it
guaranteed
oh i regret it
lock in with facebook no i just
let's just let's just play
yeah no no i get how it works
wait is this still a tutorial
is it just telling me the answers
this isn't real gaming
yep i'm done okay
uh why don't we try let's do cinebench
extreme first
all right you can't have both of them
open at the same time uh no i don't want
to save my score okay so here's the new
one
extreme
unofficial mod
so this will take a little longer
i mean it's still chewing through it
pretty quick here
let's double check those uh clock speed
so yep that's 2.8 gigahertz so this is
most assuredly an avx
avx2 workload
neat
oh right i downloaded hardware monitor
thank you worthless windows search
i guess i'll just go get it myself then
wait what the crap
where did it go
thank you edge i have no idea where my
download went
it never started
oh did i have to click again all right
all right all right nope edge is not to
blame for this
oh what just happened wow i'm not a huge
fan of this mouse it's like the clicks
are hair triggers
yeah for gamers
okay x32 x64 here we go
all right so i want to see what kind of
temps we're getting just at just at
stock speed even we're not even making
it suffer too much yet
that's great that's great
there's so many there's so many here you
can barely like keep them all on the
stupid page okay
so we're 20 26 to 28 degrees at idle
sorry i can put that on your side david
there you go
and then no no no i got you i got you
fam okay now we're going to run this
again we got 11 52 the first time around
and now let's fire up task manager
okay go ahead and pop that down there
and so you can see here everything is
actually perfectly under control in the
low 40s
so yeah you like a zeon it doesn't draw
a crazy amount of power or output a
crazy amount of heat when you're just
running it at stock speeds
where you're going to get into trouble
is when you overclock it because it's
not like you double the voltage and you
double the heat output like it's an
exponential
curve
so and then you know intel and amd well
nvidia all the chip guys they're always
tuning for that that that sweet spot of
as much performance as they can squeeze
without letting the thermals on the
power run away with them well this chip
the sort of rumor is was never designed
to be used like this on an overclockable
platform
so it's probably taken some work to even
get it this far so we're at 11 58 in
cinebench xtreme and we can go ahead and
fire up blender now
so here's 2.8 so what's the what's the
dealio with 2.8 you just fire it up from
the folder
do you have to run as administrator or
no no
uh more info run anyway
we're good okay so this will be our this
will be our last test here so which one
do you guys want to see actually anthony
which one do you want
uh gooseberry how long would we expect
gooseberry to take on this puppy
that's weird it's complaining about my
graphics driver with at least opengl 3.3
support
well i should have a driver oh
you know what it i might just need to
reboot
because the
oh
wow no yeah the whatever 1080 ti drivers
are on here
apparently are old enough that they
didn't come with 2000 series drivers in
the package would be my guess
because normally you can just swap them
around and it'll just grab it
okay so we're gonna need to grab new and
video drivers i'm sorry guys i'm
especially sorry to david who has been
holding the camera like a champion for
like an hour and a half how long have we
been streaming
okay an hour 45. david you're up
you can tell even his like fist pound
was exhausted
i'm sorry man
you know we have to do it though we have
to see blender
we have to see it through i am amazed
this worked
like
i could not be yeah you've spent enough
time goofing around with weird tech with
me that uh
yeah
you know that this is like
this is pretty good this is pretty good
for me
oh man
that's fantastic uh
i mean i don't know what else can we
throw on this thing in the meantime
we can throw uh i'll throw steam on here
although this really is not designed for
for gaming gaming use
not even with a 2080 ti i mean it'll
it'll run games in the same sense that
you can run games on like a six thousand
dollar quadro and a ten thousand dollar
zeon of course it'll run games it's just
not a great value
and so this is what we figured about
five grand all in for the cpu and
motherboard
yep so in that neighborhood and then you
know plus no one puts one graphics card
in the system like that so you're going
to need a couple 20 80 ti's that gets
you for another 2 500 bucks now you're
at 7 500
uh you're gonna need six channel memory
so you'll oh yeah does it require
all
we're good we're back
cool
perfect okay so i'm just doing a clean
install right now so we're removing the
previous version of the drivers just so
we don't run into any weird issues
and then it uh
theoretically this means you don't need
to ddu
in practice it's
i don't think quite perfect
but it should be okay
ddu is mostly for switching between
graphics hardware providers so intel amd
or nvidia
so weird that soon like very soon
intel's going to be a legitimate gaming
graphics hardware provider as opposed to
just onboard oh i accidentally clicked
the ad
whoops
i still remember how outraged people
were when they first started
integrating ads in the driver
installation process they're like
why does my driver installer need
internet access now that's like the
least offensive thing
like the least intrusive part of pc
gaming
oh man
all right well i guess i might as well
like you know start cleaning up then
can i get i can't can't really go
anywhere
i needed a bit for my screwdriver at
some point
oh yeah i moved it way over here i don't
remember what i was planning to do with
it oh
oh that's interesting right i didn't
even realize
careful
i didn't even realize as i was putting
it together but no um ek's block here
does not use a torx bit it actually
ended up using a hex bit
so i i did not need it wait no it is
torques how did i put those in
how on earth did i put those in
oh no i did use a hex
are they
are they hex or torx no they're hacks
sorry they're hex
okay
in fairness to me they both have six
somethings
so
all right let's give it the
no
there's a windows update
okay let's just see if we don't need to
reboot
it's not funny anthony
see if we can get away with it
i think we got away with one here
all right all right all right cool blah
blah blah no whoops no i don't
i put the donate button right where the
next button is very clever all right
um
i guess i can just
can i just grab it from the folder on
the
nas
which one is that though
okay oh here it is sample blender files
okay which one do you want to do
how long does gooseberry take though
yeah
15 minutes i don't know if we have 15
minutes what's the second most demanding
classroom
couple minutes okay let's do it
uh wait how do you want to open it
bloody hell blender
how do you think i want to open a
dot
blender file
oh
will that work hey it did ha
nice
okay
uh
crap i can never remember how to start
it anthony sorry
f12
of course there's a shortcut
dang it go
all right so here
we
go so this evidently
is
whoa
ouch
so we only managed to hit 2.4 gigahertz
on this particular load
what are our temps like
still in the neighborhood of about 40
degrees
what's interesting too is we're not
actually maxing out our cpu usage here
which i'm not sure if you guys can see
very well but we're only at about 76 77
it's kind of bouncing around a little
bit there
so that is going to be the uh
i mean honestly that's
a big part of the reason that
we haven't seen desktop processors
and i've used the term desktop a little
bit loosely i mean there's a desk and
they're like chop
you know obviously as a workstation
processor but we haven't seen desktop
processors with these kinds of core
accounts
ever before so there's been
technological limitations but i mean
amd or intel could have easily done a
dual socket solution or something like
that
but even
among
the high-end applications that are used
by
creative professionals or other
professionals there are still going to
be limitations to how many cores can be
effectively utilized now i don't know if
this is just something that requires
some tuning on our part
to sort of figure out
anthony took over the cpu reviews
before we ever started using blender
regularly so i have like literally
haven't touched it in a couple of years
as a benchmark
but uh
stay tuned because this is not the last
you're going to see this this is just us
having some fun taking it out of the box
but
anthony is going to be working on a full
review of this thing kind of trying to
figure out
what is it
what is its place in the market should
anybody actually buy this thing
and he's going to have a really
interesting point of comparison so our
buddies over at puget uh puget systems
actually sent us over what is it the
9990xe
yeah so that's a really unique cpu that
you can only get
through what's called like an auction
process so there's no such thing as just
calling up your rep at tech data or
cynics or angular micro or whatever and
just being like i'll have a 9980xe intel
only sells them
sporadically they'll just have like x
number of them available
and then you bid on them and so it's
entirely a system integrator only sku
but it's really interesting because it's
14 cores unlike the 9980xe which has 18
cores but
they
they are clocked to high hell and back
like this thing turbos to five gigahertz
just like the eight core processors on
the consumer platform they like the six
and eight course 14 cores
very interesting
um i don't know what do you know what
the all-core turbo is on that thing by
any chance
i don't remember either
but it was like mind-bendingly high so
we'll compare it against that as well
mostly just out of curiosity since
neither of these are something that are
going to be attainable to normal people
whether
it's because they don't have access to
an intel auction or if it's because they
don't have five grand for a cpu and
motherboard combo
i can give you guys sort of a preview of
the conclusion
actually this is funny i'm you know what
i'm going to try my best to get the
conclusion exactly right
it's an utterly unique product for those
who need the absolute best of the best
of performance in a handful of
unusual workloads and or who need more
single threaded performance and many
many cores than is offered by intel's
existing workstation or server products
however if you're a regular desktop user
or even a lightweight to mid-weight
workstation user it is very unlikely
that the w3195
x whatever they call it is going to
provide any additional value for you so
we'd really recommend sticking with
something else
does that sound about right
okay cool
uh well threadripper's price performance
is going to look pretty good yes
even with the what i thought were
obscenely expensive 500 motherboards
how many people are watching this hot
mess
[Music]
you guys are like you guys are soldiers
at this point
because this has been agonizing
agonizing all around
so many things were painful to watch to
experience
there we go okay
and
almost five minutes 13 seconds okay are
we done
five minutes 13 seconds
wait yeah why is that purple
i did load it from the network directly
did that bung things up a little
uh
okay so this is a full minute and a half
faster than the 9980xe which was the
previous top of intel's heap all right
so i think
that is pretty much the end of this
marathon stream
thank you guys for watching if you
disliked you can hit that button but if
you liked it hit like get subscribed or
maybe consider checking out where to buy
the stuff we featured at the link in the
video description also down there is our
merch store which has cool shirts like
this one and we'll have this cool hoodie
later
and our community forum which you should
totally join
go ahead and cut it
was going to do it when you anthony
least expecting it